README.md, before:

# Luau Signal

A typed Luau signal library.

Signals are a lightweight communication mechanism used to facilitate the exchange of information between different components or modules of a software system. Signals allow parts of a program to notify others without having a dependency on them. This decoupled approach promotes modularity, making it easier to manage and maintain complex systems by broadcasting data in messages without requiring direct knowledge of their recipients.

# Installation

Add `luau-signal` in your dependencies:

```bash
yarn add luau-signal
```

Or if you are using `npm`:

```bash
npm install luau-signal
```

# Example

```lua
local Signal = require('@pkg/luau-signal')

-- re-declare the type for easy access
type Signal<T...> = Signal.Signal<T...>

-- create the signal and optionally declare its type
local mySignal: Signal<string> = Signal.new()

local connection = mySignal:connect(function(param: string)
    print("Signal received:", param)
end)

-- fire the signal
mySignal:fire("Hello, World!")

-- disconnect the callback
connection:disconnect()
```

# API

## Signal

### `Signal.new<T...>(): Signal<T...>`

Creates a new signal instance.

### `Signal:fire<T...>(...: T...)`

Fires the signal, triggering all connected callback functions with the provided arguments.

### `Signal:connect<T...>(callback: (T...) -> ()): Connection`

Connects a callback function to the signal and returns a connection object. This object can be used to disconnect the callback later.

## Connection

### `Connection:disconnect() -> ()`

Disconnects the connection, preventing the associated callback function from being called when the signal fires.

### `Connection:disconnectFn() -> () -> ()`

Returns a function that, when called, disconnects the connection or **throw an error** if it has already been disconnected.

### `Connection:disconnectOnceFn() -> () -> ()`

Returns a function that, when called, checks if the connection is still active before disconnecting it. The returned function will not throw.

## Releases

Versions of the library are also pre-built and linked to [GitHub releases](https://github.com/seaofvoices/luau-disk/releases):

- `signal.rbxm` is a Roblox model file
- `signal-roblox-bundled.lua` is a single-file version of the library (with Luau type annotations removed)

## Other Lua Environments Support

If you would like to use this library on a Lua environment, where it is currently incompatible, open an issue (or comment on an existing one) to request the appropriate modifications.

The library uses [darklua](https://github.com/seaofvoices/darklua) to process its code.

Commit message:

Add subject signal (#4)
Add a signal that execute functions when they connect with the most
recent value (and also with the next fired values)

README.md, after:

# Luau Signal

A typed Luau signal library.

Signals are a lightweight communication mechanism used to facilitate the exchange of information between different components or modules of a software system. Signals allow parts of a program to notify others without having a dependency on them. This decoupled approach promotes modularity, making it easier to manage and maintain complex systems by broadcasting data in messages without requiring direct knowledge of their recipients.

This library contains two kind of signals:

- `Signal.new()`: a typical signal that you can connect to and fire values
- `Signal.newSubject(...)`: a signal that execute functions when they connect with the most recent value (and also with the next fired values)

## Installation

Add `luau-signal` in your dependencies:

```bash
yarn add luau-signal
```

Or if you are using `npm`:

```bash
npm install luau-signal
```

# Example

```lua
local Signal = require('@pkg/luau-signal')

-- re-declare the type for easy access
type Signal<T...> = Signal.Signal<T...>

-- create the signal and optionally declare its type
local mySignal: Signal<string> = Signal.new()

local connection = mySignal:connect(function(param: string)
    print("Signal received:", param)
end)

-- fire the signal
mySignal:fire("Hello, World!")

-- disconnect the callback
connection:disconnect()
```

# API

## Signal

### `Signal.new<T...>(): Signal<T...>`

Creates a new signal instance.

### `Signal.newSubject<T...>(...: T...): Signal<T...>`

Creates a new signal instance, except that when connecting to the signal, the callback will be immediately called with the most recent value. The arguments given to `newSubject` are the initial values that will be passed to function when they connect before anything was fire on the signal.

### `Signal:fire<T...>(...: T...)`

Fires the signal, triggering all connected callback functions with the provided arguments.

### `Signal:connect<T...>(callback: (T...) -> ()): Connection`

Connects a callback function to the signal and returns a connection object. This object can be used to disconnect the callback later.

## Connection

### `Connection:disconnect() -> ()`

Disconnects the connection, preventing the associated callback function from being called when the signal fires.

### `Connection:disconnectFn() -> () -> ()`

Returns a function that, when called, disconnects the connection or **throw an error** if it has already been disconnected.

### `Connection:disconnectOnceFn() -> () -> ()`

Returns a function that, when called, checks if the connection is still active before disconnecting it. The returned function will not throw.

## Releases

Versions of the library are also pre-built and linked to [GitHub releases](https://github.com/seaofvoices/luau-disk/releases):

- `signal.rbxm` is a Roblox model file
- `signal-roblox-bundled.lua` is a single-file version of the library (with Luau type annotations removed)

## Other Lua Environments Support

If you would like to use this library on a Lua environment, where it is currently incompatible, open an issue (or comment on an existing one) to request the appropriate modifications.

The library uses [darklua](https://github.com/seaofvoices/darklua) to process its code.
